.\" Manpage for wikis
.TH WIKIS 1 "v0.1.3" "September 2025" "wikis manual"
.SH NAME
\fBwikis\fR \- A CLI tool to fetch a summary on a topic from Wikipedia.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wikis
.RB [OPTIONS]
<\fITOPIC\fR | \fB--query-stdin\fR | \fB--random\fR | \fB--randomrootpage\fR>

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBwikis\fR is a command-line tool to fetch and print a summary of a topic from Wikipedia to \fBstdout\fR.
It allows selecting the language, opening the article in a browser, getting random summaries,
and more.
.PP
By default, \fBwikis\fR will prompt the user to choose a title if more than one title related to the topic is found and print the chosen title, it's Wikipedia page link, and it's summary to \fBstdout\fR.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fITOPIC\fR
The topic to search for on Wikipedia. The topic can contain multiple words with spaces.

.TP
\fB--no-link\fR
Do not print the link to the Wikipedia page.

.TP
\fB--no-summary\fR
Do not print the summary.

.TP
\fB--lang\fR \fILANG\fR
Specify the Wikipedia language edition (default is 'en' for English).

.TP
\fB--choice\fR, \fB-c\fR \fICHOICE\fR
Automatically select the Nth result from the matched topic list.

.TP
\fB--v1\fR
Use the v1 summary API (REST endpoint). Default is v2 (action=query).

.TP
\fB--query-stdin\fR
Read the search query from standard input instead of the command-line arguments.

.TP
\fB--no-prompt-text\fR
Suppress additional prompt texts.

.TP
\fB--random\fR
Fetch and print a summary for a random Wikipedia page.

.TP
\fB--randomrootpage\fR
Fetch a summary for a random root Wikipedia page.

.TP
\fB--browser\fR
Open the Wikipedia page in the default web browser.

.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Show help and exit.

.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
Show version information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
Get summary of a topic:
.nf
$ wikis Arch Linux
.fi

.TP
Suppress link:
.nf
$ wikis --no-link Arch Linux
.fi

.TP
Only get link of second matching topic:
.nf
$ wikis --no-summary -c 2 Arch Linux
.fi

.TP
Use Hindi Wikipedia:
.nf
$ wikis --lang hi Sharukh Khan
.fi

.TP
Open the article in browser:
.nf
$ wikis --browser "Don't Starve Together"
.fi

.TP
Read query from stdin:
.nf
$ echo "Arch Linux" | wikis --query-stdin
.fi

.TP
Fetch random article summary:
.nf
$ wikis --random
.fi
.SH EXIT STATUS
Returns 0 on success. Non-zero indicates errors such as no topic found, network errors,
or invalid input.
.SH AUTHOR
Developed by \fIinevitable-commit\fR.
Project URL: \fIhttps://github.com/inevitable-commit/wikis\fR
.SH LICENSE
MIT License.

.SH BUGS
The program is most likely to have bugs, as there are many Wikipedia pages that behave differently, such as \fIhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:RandomInCategory\fR. So, report bugs at \fIhttps://github.com/inevitable-commit/wikis/issues\fR
